# Imbalanced data problem
This project is being developed as part of the "Machine Learning" course.

This repository contains the full code for a comparative study of generative methods used for oversampling, including GAN, VAE, DCGAN (CNNGAN) and DCVAE (CNNVAE) methods. The goal is to evaluate the impact of these methods when it comes to generating syntethic samples for ResNet34 classifier and to analyze various dataset scenarios.

## Repository Structure
├── `boxplots/` - Statistical visualizations in the form of box plots.

├── `charts/` - Visualizations of training curves for CNNGAN, CNNVAE and ResNet34.

├── `crossvalidation_results/` - results of the classifier training for differently composed datasets in the form of `.csv` files.

├── `general_statistics` - general statistics of the results in the form of `.csv` files.

├── `generated_images` - examples of generated samples for each of the used method.

├── `histograms` - Statistical visualizations in the form of histograms.

├── `CNNGAN.py` - Implementation of CNNGAN method.

├── `CNNVAE.py` - Implementation of CNNVAE method.

├── `DatasetClasses.py` - Code to apply image perturbations.

├── `GAN.py` - Implementation of GAN method.

├── `README.md` - This file.

├── `ResNet34.py` - Implementation of ResNet34 classifier.

├── `VAE.py` - Implementation of VAE method.

├── `new_research.ipynb` - Main notebook: sample generation, training, cross-validation, evaluation.

├── `requirements.txt` -  List of required Python packages.

├── `statistical_analysis.ipynb` - Statistical analysis and visualization scripts.

└── `wrappers.py` - Wrappers enabling scikit-learn both training and analysis.

## 🧠 Generative Methods

- **GAN (Generative Adversarial Network)**
- **VAE (Variational Auto Encoder))**
- **DCGAN (Deep Convolutional Generative Adversarial Network)**
- **DCVAE (Deep Convolutional Variational Auto Encoder))**

Samples generated by these methods were then used by ResNet34 classifier.

---

## Installation

1. **Clone the repository:**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/buyablemos/ImbalancedDatasetProblem.git
cd ImbalancedDatasetProblem
```

2. **Install required packages**
   
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Running the Experiments

1. Preprocessing and Data Loading
Dataset is loaded via `kagglehub` and then transformed using classes from `DatasetClasses.py`.

2. Training and Evaluation
The core training and evaluation logic (with k-fold cross-validation) is inside `new_research.ipynb`. Simply run the notebook to:
  - Train a ResNet34 classifier (the generative methods are trained within),
  - Evaluate with F2-score, balanced accuracy, recall and specificity.

4. Analyze and Visualize Results
Scripts in the `statistical_analysis.ipynb` perform statistical analysis and generate comparative plots (e.g., bar charts, box plots, metric tables).
